+++
title = "retrieving user owned data after an organization fails"
date = 2022-05-30
updated = 2022-03-30
description = "possible solution: storing state in a decentralized system?"
[taxonomies]
tags = ["research", "spoa"]
+++
Assuming an event-sourced system, where a log of every event for an aggregate (a piece of data) is stored in an append only storage and state is generated by applying data contained in events to render a current state.

`f(state1, changes) -> state2`

In such a system, someone may have concern over the centralized storage of the state. Now, the centralized storage might be owned by an entity which stops to exist somehow. Now the user data might be lost for its owners. In a system where data spans over a large time range, that might be a problem. 

How can we give users access to their data even when the core organization which provides the service stops existing?

Thoughts
1. Store the complete state decentralized and give users access to their states.

2. Storing the complete state decentralized introduces new problems.
3. Store a reduced state, so that the user has all of the important data.

Potential Approaches

Safeguarding validation: Key events generate a clearly defined string as a fingerprint of the event. This way, proof of a certain event can still be provided even if the key provider dies.

> Simple to implement, minimal added value for the most use cases.

Storage of  the actual documents: store the documents in a distributed storage and give the user a way where they can always get to the documents.

> More complex, but also more relevant for the use case

There might be other ways, this topic needs constant evaluation.
